# Traits: Defining Shared Behavior
A trait defines the functionality a particular type has and can share
with others types. We can use traits to define behavior in an abstract way.
We can use trait bounds to specify that a generic type can be any type has certain behavior.

Is a language feature that tells the Rust compiler about functionality a particular type has and can share
with other types. It's similar to an interface in other languages. Traits define a set of methods that a type
must implement. You can use **trait bounds** with generics to ensure that a generic type can perform certain operations.

## Defining a Trait:

    pub trait Summary {
        fn summarize_author(&self) -> String;
    }

The summarize method has a default implementation, which can be overridden.

## Implementing a Trait:

    pub struct NewsArticle {
        pub headline: String,
        pub location: String,
        pub author: String,
        pub content: String,
    }
    
    impl Summary for NewsArticle {
        fn summarize(&self) -> String {
            format!("{}, by {} ({})", self.headline, self.author, self.location)
        }
    }
    
    pub struct SocialPost {
        pub username: String,
        pub content: String,
        pub reply: bool,
        pub repost: bool,
    }
    
    impl Summary for SocialPost {
        fn summarize(&self) -> String {
            format!("{}: {}", self.username, self.content)
        }
    }
    
    fn main() {
        let post = SocialPost {
            username: String::from("horse_ebooks"),
            content: String::from(
            "of course, as you probably already know, people",
            ),
            reply: false,
            repost: false,
        };

        println!("1 new post: {}", post.summarize());
    }

## Traits as Parameters:

    pub fn notify(item: &impl Summary) {
        println!("Breaking news! {}", item.summarize());
    }

Instead of a concrete type for the **item** parameter, we specify the **impl** keyword and the trait name.
This parameter accepts any type that implements the specified trait. In the body of **notify**, wee can call any methods
on **item** that come from the **Summary  trait**, such as **summarize**. We can call notify and pass any isntance
of **NewsArticle** or **SocialPost**.Code that calls the function with any other type, such as a String or an i32,
won't compile because those types don't implement **Summary**.


### Trait Bound Syntax:

    pub fn notify<T: Summary>(item: &T) {
        println!("Breaking news! {}", item.summarize());
    }

## Specifying Multiple Trait Bounds with the + Syntax:

    pub fn notify(item: &(impl Summary + Display)) {

The + syntax is also valid with trait bounds on generic types:

    pub fn notify<T: Summary + Display>(item: &T) {

