# Validating References with Lifetimes
Lifetime are another kind of generic that we've been using. Rather that ensuring that a type has the behavior we want,
lifetimes ensue that the references are valid as long as we need them to be.

**Lifetimes** are a core concept for Rust's memory safety. They are a form generic that the compiler uses to ensure all 
borrows are valid. The compiler analyzes the lifetime of each reference to make sure the data it points to lives enough.
The goal is to prevent **dangling references**, which point to data the has already been deallocated.

## An attempt to use a reference whose value has gone out of scope:

    fn main() {
    let r;
    
        {
            let x = 5;
            r = &x;
        }
    
        println!("r: {r}");
    }

    // 

    $ cargo run
    Compiling chapter10 v0.1.0 (file:///projects/chapter10)
    error[E0597]: `x` does not live long enough
    --> src/main.rs:6:13
    |
    5 |         let x = 5;
    |             - binding `x` declared here
    6 |         r = &x;
    |             ^^ borrowed value does not live long enough
    7 |     }
    |     - `x` dropped here while still borrowed
    8 |
    9 |     println!("r: {r}");
    |                  --- borrow later used here
    
    For more information about this error, try `rustc --explain E0597`.
    error: could not compile `chapter10` (bin "chapter10") due to 1 previous error


## Lifetime Annotation Syntax
Lifetime annotations don't change how long any of the references live. Rather, they describe the relationship of the lifetimes
of multiple references to each other without affecting the lifetimes.

    // The lifetime `'a` indicates that the returned reference
    // lives for the same amount of time as the shortest of the two arguments.
    fn longest<'a>(x: &'a str, y: &'a str) -> &'a str {
        if x.len() > y.len() {
            x
        } else {
            y
        }
    }

### Lifetime in a Struct:

    struct ImportantExcerpt<'a> {
        part: &'a str,
    }

    let novel = String::from("Call me Ishmael. Some years ago...");
    let first_sentence = novel.split('.').next().expect("Could not find a '.'");
    let i = ImportantExcerpt { part: first_sentence };
    // The `ImportantExcerpt` instance cannot outlive `novel`
    // because its `part` field borrows from `novel`.