# Data Types
Every value in Rust is of a certain data type, which tells Rust what kind of data is being specified so it knows how to work with data. We'll look at two data type subsets: **Scalar** and **Compound** 


## Scalar Types

A scalar type represents a single value. Rust has four primary scalar types: **integers, floating-point, numbers, Booleans, and characters.

### Integer Types
An integer is a number without a fractional component. We can use a any of these variants to declare the type of an integer value.

    Length	                Signed  Unsigned
    8-bit	                i8      u8
    16-bit	                i16     u16
    32-bit	                i32     u32
    64-bit	                i64     u64
    128-bit     	        i128	u128
    architecture dependent	isize	usize

    Signed: only positive values 0 ... n
    Unsigned: positive and negative values

We can write integer literals in any of the forms shown in teh next Table

    Number literals     Example
    Decimal             98_222
    Hex                 0xff
    Octal               0o77
    Binary              0b1111_0000
    Byte(u8 only)	    b'A'


### Floating-Point Types
Rust also has two types for floating-points numbers which are numbers with decimal points. Rust's floating types are **f32** and **f64**, wich are 32 bits and 64 bits in size, respectively. ths default type is **f64** because on modern CPUs, it's roughly the same speed as **f32** but is capable of more precision.

    fn main() {
        let x = 2.0; // f64
    
        let y: f32 = 3.0; // f32
    }

### Numeric Operations
Rust supports the basic numeric operations you'd expect for all the numbers types: addition, substraction,  multiplication, division and remainder (residuo). integer division truncates toward zero to the nearest integer.

    fn main() {
        // addition
        let sum = 5 + 10;
    
        // subtraction
        let difference = 95.5 - 4.3;
    
        // multiplication
        let product = 4 * 30;
    
        // division
        let quotient = 56.7 / 32.2;
        let truncated = -5 / 3; // Results in -1
    
        // remainder
        let remainder = 43 % 5;
    }

### Boolean Type
As in most of the programing languages, a Boolean type in Rust has two possible values: **true** and **false**. Booleans are one byte in size. the Boolean type in rust is specified using bool.

    fn main() {
        let t = true;
    
        let f: bool = false; // with explicit type annotation
    }

### Character Type
Rust's **char** type is the language's most primitive alphabetic type.

    fn main() {
        let c = 'z';
        let z: char = 'ℤ'; // with explicit type annotation
        let heart_eyed_cat = '😻';
    }

**Note** that we specify **char** literal with single quotes, as opposed to string literals, which use double quotes.


## Compound types
Compound types can group multiple values into one type. Rust has two primitive compound types:
**tuple** and **arrays**

### Tuple
A tuple is a general way of grouping together a number of values with a variety of types into one compound type. Tuples have a fixed length: once declared, they cannot grow or shrink in size.

    fn main() {
        let tup: (i32, f64, u8) = (500, 6.4, 1);
    }

The variable **tup** binds to the entire tuple because a tuple is considered a single compound element. To get individual values out of a tuple, we can use pattern matching to destructure a tuple value:

    fn main() {
        let tup = (500, 6.4, 1);
    
        let (x, y, z) = tup;
    
        println!("The value of y is: {y}");
    }

The previous code first create a tuple and bind it to a variable **tup**. ti tehn uses a pattern  with let to take **tup** and turn it into three separated variables **x**, **y** and **z**. this is called **destructuring** because it breaks the single tuple into different parts.   

We can also access a tuple element directly by using a period (.) followed by the index of the value we want to access.

    fn main() {
        let x: (i32, f64, u8) = (500, 6.4, 1);
    
        let five_hundred = x.0;
    
        let six_point_four = x.1;
    
        let one = x.2;
    }


### Array
Another way to have a collection of multiple values is with an array. Unlike a tuple, every element of an array **must have the same type**. Unlike arrays in some other languages, arrays in Rust have a fixed length.
    
    fn main() {
        let a = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5];
    }

Arrays are useful when you want your data allocated on the stack, the same as the other types we have so far, rather than the heap (monton) or when you want to ensure you always have a fixed number of elements.
An array isn't as flexible as the vector type, tough. A vector is a similar collection type provided by the standard library that is allowed to grow or shrink in size because its contend live on the heap.

However , arrays are more useful when you know the number of elements will not need to change.

    let months = ["January", "February", "March", "April", "May", "June", "July",
    "August", "September", "October", "November", "December"];

You write an array's type using brackets with type of each element, a semicolon, and then the number of elements int he array.

    let a: [i32; 5] = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5];

#### Accessing Array Elements
An array is a single chunk of memory of a known, fixed size that can be allocated on the stack. You can access elements of an array using indexing.

    fn main() {
        let a = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5];
    
        let first = a[0];
        let second = a[1];
    }