# Control Flow
The must common constructs that let you control the flow of execution of Rust code are **if** expressions and loops/

## **if** Expressions 
An **if** expression allows you to branch your code on condictions. You provide a condition and then state, "if this condition is met, run block of code. if the condition is not met do not run this block of code".

    fn main() {
        let number = 3;
    
        if number < 5 {
            println!("condition was true");
        } else {
            println!("condition was false");
        }
    }

## Handling Multiple Conditions with else if
You can use multiple condictions by combining **if** and **else** in an **else if** expression.

    fn main() {
        let number = 6;
    
        if number % 4 == 0 {
            println!("number is divisible by 4");
        } else if number % 3 == 0 {
            println!("number is divisible by 3");
        } else if number % 2 == 0 {
            println!("number is divisible by 2");
        } else {
            println!("number is not divisible by 4, 3, or 2");
        }
    }

## Using **if** in a **lef** Statement
Because **if** is an expression, we can use it on the right side of a let statement to assign the outcome to a variable, as in Listing.

    fn main() {
        let condition = true;
        let number = if condition { 5 } else { 6 };
    
        println!("The value of number is: {number}");
    }

## Repetition with loops
It's often useful  to execute a block of code more than once. For this task, Rust provides several loops, which run throught the code inside the loop body to the end and then start immediately back at the beginning.
Rust has three kind of loops: **loop, while, for**.

    fn main() {
        let mut counter = 0;
    
        let result = loop {
            counter += 1;
    
            if counter == 10 {
                break counter * 2;
            }
        };
    
        println!("The result is {result}");
    }

    The result is 20

Before the loop, we declare a variable named counter and initialize it to 0. Then we declare a variable named result to hold the value returned from the loop. On every iteration of the loop, we add 1 to the counter variable, and then check whether the counter is equal to 10. When it is, we use the break keyword with the value counter * 2. After the loop, we use a semicolon to end the statement that assigns the value to result. Finally, we print the value in result, which in this case is 20.


## Loop labels to Disambiguate Between Multiple Loops

    fn main() {
        let mut count = 0;
        'counting_up: loop {
        println!("count = {count}");
        let mut remaining = 10;
    
            loop {
                println!("remaining = {remaining}");
                if remaining == 9 {
                    break;
                }
                if count == 2 {
                    break 'counting_up;
                }
                remaining -= 1;
            }
    
            count += 1;
        }
        println!("End count = {count}");
    }

## Conditional Loops with while
A program will often need to evaluate a condition within a loop. While the condition is true, the loop runs. When the condition ceases to be true, the program calls break, stopping the loop. It’s possible to implement behavior like this using a combination of loop, if, else, and break; you could try that now in a program, if you’d like. However, this pattern is so common that Rust has a built-in language construct for it, called a while loop.

    fn main() {
        let mut number = 3;
    
        while number != 0 {
            println!("{number}!");
    
            number -= 1;
        }
    
        println!("LIFTOFF!!!");
    }

    3!
    2!
    1!
    LIFTOFF!!!


## Looping Through a Collection with for
You can choose to use the while construct to loop over the elements of a collection, such as an array. For example, the loop in Listing 3-4 prints each element in the array a.

    fn main() {
        let a = [10, 20, 30, 40, 50];
    
        for element in a {
            println!("the value is: {element}");
        }
    }

Here’s what the countdown would look like using a for loop and another method we’ve not yet talked about, rev, to reverse the range:

    fn main() {
        for number in (1..4).rev() {
            println!("{number}!");
        }
        println!("LIFTOFF!!!");
    }
