# Method Syntax
Methods are similar to functions: we declare them with the **fn** keyword and a name,
they can have parameters and a return value, and they contain some code that's run when the method is called from somewhere else.
Unlike functions, method are defined within the context of a struct (or an enum or trait object)

## Defining Methods

    #[derive(Debug)]
    struct Rectangle {
        width: u32,
        height: u32,
    }
    
    impl Rectangle {
        fn area(&self) -> u32 {
            self.width * self.height
        }
    }
    
    fn main() {
        let rect1 = Rectangle {
        width: 30,
        height: 50,
        };
    
        println!(
            "The area of the rectangle is {} square pixels.",
            rect1.area()
        );
    }

To define the method within the context of **Rectangle**, we start an **impl** (implementation) for **Rectangle**. Everything within this **impl** block will be associated with the **Rectangle** type.

## Access to struct fields values

    impl Rectangle {
            fn width(&self) -> bool {
            self.width > 0
        }
    }

    fn main() {
        let rect1 = Rectangle {
        width: 30,
        height: 50,
    };

        if rect1.width() {
            println!("The rectangle has a nonzero width; it is {}", rect1.width);
        }
    }

    The rectangle has a nonzero width; it is 30

## Associated Functions
All functions defined within an **impl** block are called **associated functions** because they're with the named after the **impl**.
We can define associated functions that don't have **self** as their first parameter (and thus are not methods) because they don't need an instance of the type to work with.

Associated functions that aren't methods are often used for contructors that will return a new instance of the struct.
Thew are often called **new*, but **new** isn't built into the language.

    impl Rectangle {
        fn square(size: u32) -> Self {
            Self {
                width: size,
                height: size,
            }
        }
    }

The **Self** keywords in the return type and in the body of the function are aliases for the type that appears after the **impl** keyword, which in this case in **Rectangle**.

To call this associated function, we use the **::** syntax with the struct name; **let sq = Rectangle::square(3);** is an example.


## Multiple impl Blocks
Each struct is allowed to have multiple **impl** blocks.

    impl Rectangle {
        fn area(&self) -> u32 {
            self.width * self.height
        }
    }
    
    impl Rectangle {
        fn can_hold(&self, other: &Rectangle) -> bool {
            self.width > other.width && self.height > other.height
        }
    }

There’s no reason to separate these methods into multiple impl blocks here, but this is valid syntax.

# Summary
**Structs** let you create custom **Types** that are meaningful for your domain.
By using **structs**, you can keep associated pieces of data connected to each other and name each piece to make your code clear.