# Shared-State Concurrency
This model involves threads sharing access to the same memory location, protected by synchronization primitives.
Rust uses smart pointers to manage ownership and safety.

## Primitives

- **Arc(T)** **(Atomic Reference Counted)**: A thread-safe version of **Rc<T>**.It allows multiple threads to own and
read the data, atomically managing the reference count. Required for sharing ownership across threads.
- **Mutex<T>** **(Mutual Exclusion)**: A primitive that allows only one thread to access the inner data (T) 
at any given time.

## Safety:
The compiler forces you to acquire a lock before accessing the data inside the Mutex. The lock automatically released
when the lock guard (returned by lock()) goes out of scope, thanks to the **Drop** trait and the RAII pattern (Resource Acquisition Is Initialization).

### Example (Arc<Mutex<T>> Combination):
This combination is the standard Rust idiom for safely sharing mutable state across multiple threads.


    use std::sync::{Mutex, Arc};
    use std::thread;
    
    // Arc<Mutex<i32>> allows multiple threads to share (Arc) and mutate (Mutex) the same data.
    let counter = Arc::new(Mutex::new(0));
    let mut handles = vec![];
    
    for _ in 0..10 {
        let counter_clone = Arc::clone(&counter); // Clone the Arc for each thread
        let handle = thread::spawn(move || {
            let mut num = counter_clone.lock().unwrap(); // Acquire the lock
            *num += 1; // Mutate the inner i32
            // Lock is automatically released when 'num' goes out of scope
        });
        handles.push(handle);
    }
    
    for handle in handles {
        handle.join().unwrap();
    }
    println!("Result: {}", *counter.lock().unwrap()); // Output: Result: 10