# Recoverable Errors with Result
Most errors aren't serious enough to require  the program to stop.
Sometimes a function fails it's for a reason that you can easily interpret and respond to.

The **Result<T, E>** enum is for errors that you can reasonably handle.
it has two variants: **Ok(T)** for a succesful outcome, returning a value of type **T**, and 
**Err(E)** for a failure, returning an error value of type **E**.
The compiler forces you to handle both variants, ensuring yo can't ignore the potential error.

### Using match to handle a Result:

    use std::fs::File;
    use std::io::ErrorKind;
    
    fn main() {
        let greeting_file = File::open("hello.txt");
        let greeting_file = match greeting_file {
        Ok(file) => file,
        Err(error) => match error.kind() {
            ErrorKind::NotFound => match File::create("hello.txt") {
                Ok(fc) => fc,
                Err(e) => panic!("Problem creating the file: {:?}", e),
            },
            other_error => {
                panic!("Problem opening the file: {:?}", other_error);
                }
            },
        };
    }

### Using unwrap() and expect():
These are convenience methods for when you're confident a Result will be Ok. unwrap() will panic! on Err, while expect() allows you to provide a custom panic message.

    use std::fs::File;
    
    // This will panic if the file cannot be opened.
    let f = File::open("hello.txt").unwrap();
    
    // This is similar but with a custom message.
    let f = File::open("hello.txt").expect("Failed to open hello.txt");

### Propagating errors with the ? operator
The **?** placed after the **Result** value is defined to work in almost the same way
 as the **match** expression we defined to handle teh **Result** values.
If the **Result** is an **Ok** will get returned from teh expression, ant he program will continue.
If the value is an **Err**, the **Err** will be returned from the whole expression as if we had used the **return**
keyword so the error value gets propagated to teh calling code.

There is a difference between what the match expression from Listing 9-6 does and what the ? operator does: error values that have the ? operator called on them go through the from function, defined in the From trait in the standard library, which is used to convert values from one type into another. When the ? operator calls the from function, the error type received is converted into the error type defined in the return type of the current function. This is useful when a function returns one error type to represent all the ways a function might fail, even if parts might fail for many different reasons.

For example, we could change the read_username_from_file function in Listing 9-7 to return a custom error type named OurError that we define. If we also define impl From<io::Error> for OurError to construct an instance of OurError from an io::Error, then the ? operator calls in the body of read_username_from_file will call from and convert the error types without needing to add any more code to the function.

In the context of Listing 9-7, the ? at the end of the File::open call will return the value inside an Ok to the variable username_file. If an error occurs, the ? operator will return early out of the whole function and give any Err value to the calling code. The same thing applies to the ? at the end of the read_to_string call.

The ? operator eliminates a lot of boilerplate and makes this function’s implementation simpler. We could even shorten this code further by chaining method calls immediately after the ?, as shown in Listing 9-8.


    use std::fs::File;
    use std::io::{self, Read};
    
    fn read_username_from_file() -> Result<String, io::Error> {
        let mut s = String::new();
        File::open("hello.txt")?.read_to_string(&mut s)?;
        Ok(s)
    }

## Where the ? Operator Can Be Used

The **?** operator is a syntactic shortcut for error handling that simplifies code by returning an **Err** early from a function or unwrapping an **Ok** value.

It can only be used in functions that return a type compatible with the value it's used on. This means:

- If you use ? on a **Result<T, E>** type, the function you are in must return a **Result**.
The **?** will unwrap the **Ok(T)** value or, if it encounters an **Err(E)**,
it will immediately return that **Err** from the function.

- If you use **?** on an Option<T> type, the function you are in must return an **Option**.
The **?** will unwrap the **Some(T)** value or, if it encounters a None,
it will immediately return None from the function.


You cannot mix and match Result and Option with the ? operator. For example, using ? on a Result in a function that returns an Option will result in a compiler error.
### Example: Mixing Result and Option

    use std::fs::File;
    use std::io::Read;
    
    // This function attempts to get the size of a file, returning an Option.
    // It will fail to compile.
    fn get_file_size(filename: &str) -> Option<u64> {
    // File::open returns a Result<File, io::Error>
    // The `?` operator here attempts to propagate a potential `Err`
    // but the function's return type is `Option`, not `Result`.
    let mut file = File::open(filename)?; // <-- Compiler Error here
    let mut buffer = Vec::new();

    // The read_to_end method also returns a Result
    file.read_to_end(&mut buffer)?; // <-- Another Compiler Error here

    Some(buffer.len() as u64)
}

    fn main() {
        let size = get_file_size("example.txt");
        match size {
        Some(s) => println!("File size is {} bytes", s),
            None => println!("Could not determine file size"),
        }
    }

The previous code defines a function get_file_size that is intended to return an Option<u64>. However, inside the function, we use the ? operator on the result of File::open, which returns a Result<File, io::Error>. The compiler will flag this as an error because an Err(io::Error) cannot be implicitly converted into a None variant of an Option.

    //

    error[E0277]: the `?` operator can only be used in a function that returns `Result` or `Option` (or another type that implements `FromResidual`)
    --> src/main.rs:9:41
    |
    7 | fn get_file_size(filename: &str) -> Option<u64> {
    | ----------------------------------------------- this function should return `Result` or `Option` to accept `?`
    8 |     let mut file = File::open(filename)?;
    |                                         ^ cannot use the `?` operator in a function that returns `Option<u64>`
    |
    = help: the trait `FromResidual<Result<Infallible, std::io::Error>>` is not implemented for `Option<u64>`

The error message the trait FromResidual<Result<...>> is not implemented for Option<u64> clearly states the problem. The ? operator relies on the FromResidual trait to perform its conversion and early return. Since there is no implementation to convert a Result's error variant into an Option's None variant, the operation is invalid.
To fix this, the function's return type must be changed to Result, or you would have to manually convert the Result into an Option using a match expression or a method like ok().



main Function and ?
By default, the main function returns (), which is not compatible with the ? operator. To use ? in main, you must change its return type to a Result. A common practice is to use Result<(), Box<dyn Error>>, which allows the main function to handle any type of error and ensures a clean exit code (0 for success, a non-zero value for an error).