# Smart Pointers
A pointer is a general concept for a variable that contains an address in memory. This address refers to, or
"points at", some other data. The most common kind of pointer in Rust is a **Reference**.
**Refences** are indicated by the **&** symbol and borrow the value they point to.
they don't have any special capabilities other than referring to data, and they have no overhead.

Rust, with its concept of ownership and borrowing, has an additional difference between references and smart pointers: while references only borrow data, in many cases smart pointers own the data they point to.

Smart pointer are usually implemented using Structs. Unlike an ordinary struct smart pointers implement the 
**Deref** adn **Drop** traits. The **Deref** trait allows an instance of the smart pointer struct to behave like a reference
so you can write your code with either refences or smart pointers. The **Drop** trait allows you to customize the code that's
run when the instance of the smart pointer goes out of scope.

Given that the smart pointer pattern is a general design pattern used frequently in Rust, this chapter won’t cover every existing smart pointer. Many libraries have their own smart pointers, and you can even write your own. We’ll cover the most common smart pointers in the standard library:

- Box<T>, for allocating values on the heap
- Rc<T>, a reference counting type that enables multiple ownership
- Ref<T> and RefMut<T>, accessed through RefCell<T>, a type that enforces the borrowing rules at runtime instead of compile time