# Storing UTF-8 Encoded Text with Strings
Rust has two main string types, **the growable**, heap-allocated **String**
and the immutable, **borrowed** slice **&str**. The **String** type is a wrapper over **Vec<u8>**
that guaranties valid UTF-8 encoding.
String Operations are more complex than in other languages because of this UFT-8 guarantee;
direct indexing by character in not allowed as characters can be multiple bytes.
**You must use methods like **chars()** or **bytes()** for iteration.

## Creating a New String

    let mut s = String::new();

This line creates a new, empty string called **s**.

    let data = "initial contents";

    let s = data.to_string();

    // The method also works on a literal directly:
    let s = "initial contents".to_string();

this code creates a string containing **initial contents**.

## Updating a String
A **String** can grow in size or shrink and its contents can change just like the contents of **Vec<T>**,
if you push more data into it.

n addition, you can conveniently use the + operator or the format! macro to concatenate String values.

    let mut s = String::from("foo");
    s.push_str("bar");

After these two lines, s will contain foobar.
The push_str method takes a string slice because we don’t necessarily want to take ownership of the parameter.
For example, in the code in Listing 8-16, we want to be able to use s2 after appending its contents to s1.


    let mut s1 = String::from("foo");
    let s2 = "bar";
    s1.push_str(s2);
    println!("s2 is {s2}");

    // s2 is bar

If the **push_str** method took ownership of **s2**, we wouldn't be able to print its value on the last line.


## Concatenation with the + Operator or the format! Macro

    let s1 = String::from("tic");
    let s2 = String::from("tac");
    let s3 = String::from("toe");

    let s = s1 + "-" + &s2 + "-" + &s3;

or 

    let s1 = String::from("tic");
    let s2 = String::from("tac");
    let s3 = String::from("toe");

    let s = format!("{s1}-{s2}-{s3}");


### Note
    let s1 = String::from("hi");
    let h = s1[0];

will not work because the UTF-8 encoder

    $ cargo run
    Compiling collections v0.1.0 (file:///projects/collections)
    error[E0277]: the type `str` cannot be indexed by `{integer}`
    --> src/main.rs:3:16
    |
    3 |     let h = s1[0];
    |                ^ string indices are ranges of `usize`
    |
    = note: you can use `.chars().nth()` or `.bytes().nth()`
    for more information, see chapter 8 in The Book: <https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/ch08-02-strings.html#indexing-into-strings>
    = help: the trait `SliceIndex<str>` is not implemented for `{integer}`
    but trait `SliceIndex<[_]>` is implemented for `usize`
    = help: for that trait implementation, expected `[_]`, found `str`
    = note: required for `String` to implement `Index<{integer}>`
    
    For more information about this error, try `rustc --explain E0277`.
    error: could not compile `collections` (bin "collections") due to 1 previous error

The error and the note tell the story: Rust strings don’t support indexing.