## Defining an Enum
Where structs give you a way of grouping together related fields and data, like a **Rectangle** with width and height, enums give you a way of saying a value is one of a possible set of values.
For example, we may want to say that the **Rectangle** is one of a set of possible shapes that also includes **Circle** and **Triangle**.

    enum Shape {
        Square,
        Triangle,
        Rectangle,
    }

### Enum Values
We can create instances  of each of the variants of **Shape** like this:

    let square = Shape::Square;
    let triangle = Shape::Triangle;
    let rectangle = Shape::Rectangle;

Using enums has even more advantages.

    enum Shape {
        Square,
        Triangle,
        Rectangle,
    }

    struct Lego {
        shape: Shape,
        color: String,
    }
    
    let lego_one = {
        Shape::Square,
        String::from("green"),
    };

We can also do:

    enum IpAddr {
        V4(u8, u8, u8, u8),
        V6(String),
    }

    let home = IpAddr::V4(127, 0, 0, 1);

    let loopback = IpAddr::V6(String::from("::1"));

Or:

    struct Ipv4Addr {
        // --snip--
    }
    
    struct Ipv6Addr {
        // --snip--
    }
    
    enum IpAddr {
        V4(Ipv4Addr),
        V6(Ipv6Addr),
    }

## Let’s look at another example of an enum this one has a wide variety of types embedded in its variants.

    enum Message {
        Quit,
        Move { x: i32, y: i32 },
        Write(String),
        ChangeColor(i32, i32, i32),
    }

- Quit: Has no data associated with it at all
- Move: Has named fields, like a struct does
- Write: Includes a single String
- ChangeColor: Includes three i32 values

Defining an enum with variants such as the previous one is similar to defining different kinds of struct definitions, except the enum doesn’t use the struct keyword and all the variants are grouped together under the Message type. The following structs could hold the same data that the preceding enum variants hold:

    struct QuitMessage; // unit struct
    struct MoveMessage {
        x: i32,
        y: i32,
    }
    struct WriteMessage(String); // tuple struct
    struct ChangeColorMessage(i32, i32, i32); // tuple struct

## The Option Enum and Its Advantages Over Null Values
This section explores a case study od **Option**, which is another enum defined by the standard library.
The **Option** type encodes the very common scenario in which a value could be something, or it could be nothing.

### Rust does not have nulls, but it does have an enum that can encode the concept of a value being present or absent.
### This enum is Option<T> and it is [defined by the standard library](https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/option/enum.Option.html) as follows:

    enum Option<T> {
        None,
        Some(T),
    }
    
The **Option<T>** enum is so useful that it's even included in the prelude; you don't need to bring it
into scope explicitly. Its variants are also included in the prelude: you can use **Some** and **None**
directly without the **Option::** prefix. The **Option<T>** enum still just a regular enum, and **Some(T)** and **None** still variants of type **Option<t>**.

The **<t>** syntax is a feature of Rust we haven't talked about yet.
it's a generic type parameter, and we'll cover in more detail later.
All you need to know is that **<T>** means that **Some** variant of the **Option** enum can hold one piece of data of any type,
and that each concrete type gets used in place of **T** makes the overall **Option<T>** type a different type.

    let some_number = Some(5);
    let some_char = Some('e');

    let absent_number: Option<i32> = None;

